# Data-driven decision making applied to geospatial data.
### Project made as final project of the Ironhack Data Analytics bootcamp program (January 2022 - March 2022)

### > In a nutshell

This project has consisted in the elaboration of a system of agregation of geospatial data oriented towards decision making. The context for this project is that of selecting Airbnb housing for a vacational stay in the island of Tenerife (Spain). With this aim in mind relevant data of Airbnb listings in Tenerife and  its location have been crossed with data on the location of the main tourist attractions and points of interest of the island. Once this is done the algorithm selects and displays the most optimal locations to book an Airbnb based on the preferences of the user. The desirability of a given spot is determined on the basis of its distance (measured as travel time by car) to the specified set of reference spots. It is also worth mentioning that all this project have been carried out in python and/or using libraries or software which are designed for python.

### > The data

The data on aribnb listings in Tenerife has been obationed  through web scraping mainly employing the Selenium suite for browser automation. The airbnb dataset covers data on basic Airbnb characteristics like size and number of bathrooms, its location and its per-night price. Regarding the interest points that are to be related to airbnbs, these have been collected from the website Tripadvisor from among a selection of highlighted attractions and tourist spots according their popularity among users. Lastly, travel distances by car were provided by the google maps routes API, covering the travel times by car between every two centroids of the hexagons that compose the grid in which the m ap of the island has been divided.

### > The data transformation

Once the data was gathered and cleaned, the transformation process to obtain the final product could be summarized as joining the data on airbnb listings and interest spots with the grid generated by H3 geo as glue.

### > The tool in action

By executing the streamlit .ipynb file contained in the 'presentation' folder in this repo a demo of the funcionalities of the tool can be accessed. The tool has two types of representation, K-top spots and Heatmap. The K-top mode (Known as "selected locations" in the demo) will display in the map the spots where the travel distance by car to the specified interest spots is minimized (or maximized if the istance mode is 'far'). The heatmap mode (Known as "full hexmap" in the demo) will display a heatmap where the colour of each cell of the grid where an airbnb listing is available will depend on the travel time by car to the specified points of interest. The filters available in the demo allow to choose up to 4 filters simultaneously, where a filter works in a simalar way  to the following example sentence: 

"Minimize the time travel by car to 2 two highlighted beaches".

That would be a single filter, by combining for example 3 of them we could instruct the algorithm to display a heatmap with the following criteria:

"Minimize the time travel by car to 2 two highlighted beaches, 4 Golf courts and 1 cultural attraction"

### > The concept behind the project 

This demo has a limited set of filters that given the context in which it has been developed (Choosing from the Airbnb listingsin Tenerife)  were considered to be illustrative of the funtionalities of this tool, however but the number of them is potentially unlimited and adaptable to the data available as long as we are able to incorporate to the dataset information on the variables in which we are interested. Moreover the flexibility of H3 geo allows also to extend a similar analysis to virtually any location on earth where we would like to perform a geospatial analysis. An expanding company who whishes to enter a new market and need to know the best potential locations for such operation, an event who would like to reach this potential audience for it next edition or virtually any decision makeing process which requires of geospatial analysis.

### > How to handle this repo

This repo contains all of the components of the project, however its structure is still being optimized for maximum accesibility and clarity of evalaution and exploration. The content is expected to be arranged in a more user friendly way and the code made more accesible, cleansed and conataining more relevant comments in future actualizations.

The structure goes as follows:

- 'Data' folder: contains the main datasets of the project.
- 'Scrapping Notebooks': contains the code related to web scrapping and the data obtained in such way
- APIs Notebooks: contains h¡the code related to APIs and data extraction from APIs
- 'H3 Geo notebooks':  contains the code related to geo indexing and the tool itself
- 'Presentation': contains the relevant files to run the tool Demo on streamlit

